Requirements
============

   This installation requires the pre-installation of the cmake tool,
   a C++11 ready compiler such as g++ version 4.7, and the library: sdsl.

   For Linux, the library sdsl will be installed while makin the tool itself as given below.

   It requires another external tool: maw

Pre-Installation
================

The [external](./external) directory contains [maw] (https://github.com/solonas13/maw) source code.
It runs only on Linux platform. 

To install maw locally, use the following command:
```sh
chmod +x pre-install.sh
./pre-install.sh
```


Basic Instructions
==================
Compilation of the tool:
-------------------------
   To **compile** the tool, use the following shell command:
```sh
	 make 
```
   
**Usage** of the tool:
----------------------

	After compilation the binary `mawcd` will be created in `bin` folder of the working 
directory; the tool can be used thereafter. 
You can try the tool for compression with the given sample files (`sample` folder) via
```sh
./bin/mawcd -m COM -a DNA -i sample/input2.txt -o sample/com2.txt -d sample/ad2.txt
```
It will compress the file input2.txt (which mimics the Fasta format) to create the compressed file com2.txt and an anti-dictionary ad2.txt (All in the `sample` folder).

You can try the tool for decompression with the output generated by the command above on the sample files (`sample` folder), via
```sh
./bin/mawcd -m DECOM -a DNA -o sample/decom2.txt -i sample/com2.txt -d sample/ad2.txt
```
It will decompress the compressed file com2.txt to create the decompressed original file decom2.txt (which will be same as the original file) using the anti-dictionary ad2.txt (All in the `sample` folder).

Test
====

The [test](./test) directory contains test code. [googletest][GTEST]
framework and [make][MAKE] have been used to run the tests. 

To install googletest locally, use the following command:
```sh
cd ./external/googletest
cmake .
make
mv libg* ../gtest/lib/
cp -R include/gtest ../gtest/include
```

To simply run all unit tests after compiling the tool, use the following command

```sh
cd ./test
make Makefile.gcc
./bin/mytests
```

TODO: Write tests for the modules.

